oc.deprecated (#679)
omry/omegaconf: docs/source/custom_resolvers.rst

Note that the cache is based on the string literals representing the resolver's inputs, and not
the inputs themselves:

.. doctest::

    >>> import random
    >>> random.seed(1234)
    >>> OmegaConf.register_new_resolver(
    ...    "cached", random.randint, use_cache=True
    ... )
    >>> OmegaConf.register_new_resolver("uncached", random.randint)
    >>> c = OmegaConf.create(
    ...     {
    ...         "uncached": "${uncached:0,10000}",
    ...         "cached_1": "${cached:0,10000}",
    ...         "cached_2": "${cached:0, 10000}",
    ...         "cached_3": "${cached:0,${uncached}}",
    ...     }
    ... )
    >>> # not the same since the cache is disabled by default
    >>> assert c.uncached != c.uncached
    >>> # same value on repeated access thanks to the cache
    >>> assert c.cached_1 == c.cached_1 == 122
    >>> # same input as `cached_1` => same value
    >>> assert c.cached_2 == c.cached_1 == 122
    >>> # same string literal "${uncached}" => same value
    >>> assert c.cached_3 == c.cached_3 == 1192

Custom interpolations can also receive the following special parameters:

- ``_parent_`` : the parent node of an interpolation.
- ``_root_``: The config root.

> 

Reviewer: Is the new `_node_` special parameter going to become a public API? This would be the place to mention it :)

Reviewer: Also, if it will be public, we should add a test or two to `tests/interpolation/test_custom_resolvers.py`.

This can be achieved by adding the special parameters to the resolver signature.
Note that special parameters must be defined as named keywords (after the `*`):

In this example, we use ``_parent_`` to implement a sum function that defaults to 0 if the node does not exist.

> (In contrast to the sum we defined earlier where accessing an invalid key, e.g. ``"a_plus_z": ${sum:${a}, ${z}}`` will result in an error).

Author: > Ok, maybe we should actually check it and raise an exception if we want to really enforce it.

I don't care about enforcing it, this is just a gotcha that people will hit if they try to use this with a parameter that has a default value.
I am not even sure this is detectable from Python.
Feel free to send a followup PR to improve this though.

    >>> cfg = OmegaConf.create(
    ...     {
    ...         "node": {
    ...             "a": 1,
    ...             "b": 2,
    ...             "a_plus_b": "${sum2:a,b}",
    ...             "a_plus_z": "${sum2:a,z}",
    ...         },
    ...     }
    ... )
    >>> cfg.node.a_plus_b
    3
    >>> cfg.node.a_plus_z
    1

Built-in resolvers
------------------

.. _oc.env:

oc.env 
^^^^^^

Access to environment variables is supported using ``oc.env``:

Input YAML file:

.. include:: env_interpolation.yaml
   :code: yaml

.. doctest::

    >>> conf = OmegaConf.load('source/env_interpolation.yaml')
    >>> conf.user.name
    'omry'
    >>> conf.user.home
    '/home/omry'

You can specify a default value to use in case the environment variable is not set.
In such a case, the default value is converted to a string using ``str(default)``, unless it is ``null`` (representing Python ``None``) - in which case ``None`` is returned. 

The following example falls back to default passwords when ``DB_PASSWORD`` is not defined:

.. _oc.deprecated:

oc.deprecated
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
``oc.deprecated`` enables you to deprecate a config node.

> It takes two parameter:
> - key: An interpolation key representing the new key you are migrating to. This parameter is required.
> - message: A message to use as the warning when the config node is being accessed. The default message is
> ``'$KEY' is deprecated. Change your code and config to use '$NEW_KEY'``. Note that $KEY and $NEW_KEY 
> do not use interpolation syntax.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It takes two parameters:

- ``key``: An interpolation key representing the new key you are migrating to. This parameter is required.
- ``message``: An optional message to use as the warning when the config node is being accessed. The default message is
  ``'$KEY' is deprecated. Change your code and config to use '$NEW_KEY'``. Note that ``$KEY`` and ``$NEW_KEY``
  do not use interpolation syntax.
```

Author: assuming this is only about using \`\` around key and message, done.

Reviewer 2: It was more than that => I created another diff

> do not use interpolation syntax.

Author: done in 1f32b11

.. doctest::

    >>> conf = OmegaConf.create({
    ...   "rusty_key" : "${oc.deprecated:shiny_key}", 
    ...   "rusty_key_custom_msg" : "${oc.deprecated:shiny_key, 'Why you no use $NEW_KEY?'}",
    ...   "shiny_key": 10
    ... })
    >>> # Accessing rusty_key will issue a deprecation warning 
    >>> # and return the new value automatically
    >>> warning = "'rusty_key' is deprecated. Change your" \
    ...           " code and config to use 'shiny_key'"
    >>> with pytest.warns(UserWarning, match=warning):

>     ...   assert conf.rusty_key == 10

Author: It would have been. unfortunately the warning is showing up when building the and is not captured.
This is not only making it harder to read, but also make the doc building depends on pytest, which could cause issues when building the docs.

    >>> conf.user.name
    'omry'
    >>> conf.user.home
    '/home/omry'

You can specify a default value to use in case the environment variable is not set.
In such a case, the default value is converted to a string using ``str(default)``, unless it is ``null`` (representing Python ``None``) - in which case ``None`` is returned. 

The following example falls back to default passwords when ``DB_PASSWORD`` is not defined:

.. doctest::

    >>> cfg = OmegaConf.create(
    ...     {
    ...         "database": {
    ...             "password1": "${oc.env:DB_PASSWORD,password}",
    ...             "password2": "${oc.env:DB_PASSWORD,12345}",
    ...             "password3": "${oc.env:DB_PASSWORD,null}",
    ...         },
    ...     }
    ... )
    >>> # default is already a string
    >>> show(cfg.database.password1)
    type: str, value: 'password'
    >>> # default is converted to a string automatically
    >>> show(cfg.database.password2)
    type: str, value: '12345'
    >>> # unless it's None
    >>> show(cfg.database.password3)
    type: NoneType, value: None

.. _oc.deprecated:

oc.deprecated
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
``oc.deprecated`` enables you to deprecate a config node.

> It takes two parameter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It takes two parameters:

```

- ``key``: An interpolation key representing the new key you are migrating to. This parameter is required.

> - ``message``: A message to use as the warning when the config node is being accessed. The default message is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``message``: An optional message to use as the warning when the config node is being accessed. The default message is
```

Author: It's not optional but since it has a default value you don't need to worry about it.

Reviewer 2: It's optional in the sense that you don't need to provide it. But anyway, not a big deal => resolving.

The following example falls back to default passwords when ``DB_PASSWORD`` is not defined:

.. _oc.deprecated:

oc.deprecated
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
``oc.deprecated`` enables you to deprecate a config node.
It takes two parameter:
- key: An interpolation key representing the new key you are migrating to. This parameter is required.
- message: A message to use as the warning when the config node is being accessed. The default message is
``'$KEY' is deprecated. Change your code and config to use '$NEW_KEY'``. Note that $KEY and $NEW_KEY 
do not use interpolation syntax.

.. doctest::

    >>> conf = OmegaConf.create({
    ...   "rusty_key" : "${oc.deprecated:shiny_key}", 

>     ...   "rusty_key_custom_msg" : "${oc.deprecated:shiny_key, 'Why you no use $NEW_KEY?'}",

Author: https://imgflip.com/memegenerator/5214848/Why-you-no

Fixed both in f4aa8f2.
